Update docs and infer_signature (#13407)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/source/model/signatures.rst

        inputs=input_schema, outputs=output_schema, params=params_schema
    )

GenAI flavors model signature examples
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
GenAI flavors such as langchain, OpenAI, and transformers normally require an object (dictionary) based model signature.
Manually defining the structure is complex and error-prone. Instead, you should rely on the `infer_signature` method to automatically
generate the model signature based on an input example.

When logging a GenAI flavor model, you can pass the input example to the `input_example` parameter of the `log_model` method.
MLflow will infer the model signature from the provided input and apply it to the logged model. Additionally, this input example 
helps validate that the model can run predictions successfully, making it **strongly recommended to always include an input example when logging a GenAI model**.

.. note::
    By default, fields in the input example are inferred as required. To mark a field as optional, you can provide a list of 
    input examples where some examples contain None values for the optional fields. This behavior will be improved in future releases.

> Take langchain model as an example, you can log a model with signature with below steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taking a langchain model as an example, you can log a model with signature with 2 simple steps using the models from code feature:
```

    from langchain_core.runnables import RunnableLambda
    from langchain_openai import OpenAI

    import mlflow

    mlflow.set_experiment("Homework Helper")

    mlflow.langchain.autolog()

    prompt = PromptTemplate(
        template="You are a helpful tutor that evaluates my homework assignments and provides suggestions on areas for me to study further."
        " Here is the question: {question} and my answer which I got wrong: {answer}",
        input_variables=["question", "answer"],
    )

    def get_question(input):
        default = "What is your name?"
        if isinstance(input_data[0], dict):
            return input_data[0].get("content").get("question", default)
        return default

    def get_answer(input):
        default = "My name is Bobo"
        if isinstance(input_data[0], dict):
            return input_data[0].get("content").get("answer", default)
        return default

    model = OpenAI(temperature=0.95)

    chain = (
        {
            "question": itemgetter("messages") | RunnableLambda(get_question),
            "answer": itemgetter("messages") | RunnableLambda(get_answer),
        }
        | prompt
        | model

>         | StrOutputParser()

Reviewer: Can we add a note above explaining just how critical it is to add this parser stage? I think the single most common issue that users have with getting their signatures to work correctly is forgetting or not knowing that they need this step.

>         | StrOutputParser()

Reviewer: Can we add a note above explaining just how critical it is to add this parser stage? I think the single most common issue that users have with getting their signatures to work correctly is forgetting or not knowing that they need this step.

>         | StrOutputParser()

Reviewer: Can we add a note above explaining just how critical it is to add this parser stage? I think the single most common issue that users have with getting their signatures to work correctly is forgetting or not knowing that they need this step.

    )

    mlflow.models.set_model(chain)

2. Log the langchain model with a valid input example:

.. code-block:: python
    
    input_example = {
        "messages": [
            {
                "role": "user",
                "content": {
                    "question": "What is the primary function of control rods in a nuclear reactor?",
                    "answer": "To stir the primary coolant so that the neutrons are mixed well.",
                },
            },
        ]
    }

    chain_path = "langchain_model.py"
    with mlflow.start_run():
        model_info = mlflow.langchain.log_model(
            lc_model=chain_path, artifact_path="model", input_example=input_example
        )

> 

Reviewer: Can we add an example of defining Optional values? This is another point of confusion (even though it's mentioned in text above, we should show a code snippet for readers who navigate directly to code first)

At this stage, the input_example serves multiple purposes: it is used to infer the model signature, 
validate that the model functions correctly when reloaded using the PyFunc flavor, and to generate 

> a corresponding serving_input_example, which is used to validate the model’s functionality prior to deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a corresponding serving_input_example. The generated signature is used to validate the model’s functionality prior to deployment as well as providing guidance to callers of the model when it is deployed if they are making requests with invalid data structures.
```

For more information on the benefits and usage of the input example, refer to the :ref:`Model Input Example <input-example>` section.
To learn how to validate the model locally before deployment, refer to the :ref:`Model Serving Payload Example <model-serving-payload-example>` section.

3. Load the model back and make predictions:

.. code-block:: python

    loaded_model = mlflow.pyfunc.load_model(model_info.model_uri)
    result = loaded_model.predict(input_example)

    print(result)

> **Dataclass object as input is also accepted, use `infer_signature` to get the model signature**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**A `Dataclass` object is also a valid way of submitting a signature. Passing a `Dataclass` definition to `infer_signature` will generate the corresponding model signature equivalent**:
```

        inputs=input_schema, outputs=output_schema, params=params_schema
    )

> GenAI flavors model signature examples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Model signature examples for GenAI flavors
```

If your model has an optional input field, you can use below input_example as a reference:

.. code-block:: python

    from mlflow.models import infer_signature

    input_example = {
        "messages": [
            {
                # specify name field in the first message
                "name": "userA",
                "role": "user",
                "content": {
                    "question": "What is the primary function of control rods in a nuclear reactor?",
                    "answer": "To stir the primary coolant so that the neutrons are mixed well.",
                },
            },
            {
                # no name field in the second message, so `name` will be inferred as optional
                "role": "user",
                "content": {
                    "question": "What is MLflow?",
                    "answer": "MLflow is an open-source platform",
                },
            },
        ]
    }

    print(infer_signature(input_example))

3. Load the model back and make predictions:

.. code-block:: python

    loaded_model = mlflow.pyfunc.load_model(model_info.model_uri)
    result = loaded_model.predict(input_example)

    print(result)

> **A Dataclass object is also a valid way of submitting a signature. Passing a Dataclass

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**A Dataclass object is also a valid way of constructing a signature. Passing a Dataclass
```

Reviewer 2: Can we hyperlink `Dataclass` with https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html?

> definition to** `infer_signature` **will generate the corresponding model signature equivalent**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
instance to** `infer_signature` **will generate the corresponding model signature equivalent**:
```

`Dataclass` definition sounds like this:

```
@dataclass
class Foo:
    pass

infer_signature(Foo) # not infer_signature(Foo)
```suggestion
definition to** `infer_signature` **will generate the corresponding model signature equivalent**:
```
```

.. code-block:: python

    from mlflow.models import infer_signature
    from mlflow.models.rag_signatures import ChatCompletionRequest, ChatCompletionResponse

    model_signature = infer_signature(
        ChatCompletionRequest(),
        ChatCompletionResponse(),
    )

>     print(model_signature)

Reviewer 2: Can we create a custom dataclass and use it?

        inputs=input_schema, outputs=output_schema, params=params_schema
    )

Model signature examples for GenAI flavors
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
GenAI flavors such as langchain, OpenAI, and transformers normally require an object (dictionary) based model signature.
Manually defining the structure is complex and error-prone. Instead, you should rely on the `infer_signature` method to automatically
generate the model signature based on an input example.

When logging a GenAI flavor model, you can pass the input example to the `input_example` parameter of the `log_model` method.
MLflow will infer the model signature from the provided input and apply it to the logged model. Additionally, this input example 
helps validate that the model can run predictions successfully, making it **strongly recommended to always include an input example when logging a GenAI model**.

.. note::
    By default, fields in the input example are inferred as required. To mark a field as optional, you can provide a list of 

>     input examples where some examples contain None values for the optional fields. This behavior will be improved in future releases.

Reviewer 2: can you add an example?

Author: There's an example on line 740

Reviewer 2: I think that's too far.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    By default, fields in the input example are inferred as required. To mark a field as optional, you can provide a list of 
    input examples where some examples contain None values for the optional fields ((e.g. `[{"str": "a"}, {"str": None}]`)). This behavior will be improved in future releases.
```

>     input examples where some examples contain None values for the optional fields. This behavior will be improved in future releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    input examples where some examples contain None values for the optional fields.
```

I don't think we need to mention this.

If your model has an optional input field, you can use below input_example as a reference:

.. code-block:: python

    from mlflow.models import infer_signature

    input_example = {
        "messages": [
            {
                # specify name field in the first message
                "name": "userA",
                "role": "user",
                "content": {
                    "question": "What is the primary function of control rods in a nuclear reactor?",
                    "answer": "To stir the primary coolant so that the neutrons are mixed well.",
                },
            },
            {
                # no name field in the second message, so `name` will be inferred as optional
                "role": "user",
                "content": {
                    "question": "What is MLflow?",
                    "answer": "MLflow is an open-source platform",
                },
            },
        ]
    }

    print(infer_signature(input_example))

3. Load the model back and make predictions:

.. code-block:: python

    loaded_model = mlflow.pyfunc.load_model(model_info.model_uri)
    result = loaded_model.predict(input_example)

    print(result)

> **A** `Dataclass <https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html>`_ **object is also a valid way of submitting a signature. Passing a Dataclass

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**A** `Dataclass <https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html>`_ **object is also supported to define a signature. Passing a Dataclass
```
